Uptime is usually measured as a percentage of time that assistance is available.
99.9 percent is a standard uptime provided by many Service Level Agreements or SLAs.
This means that your service should be up and running normally 99.9 percent of the time,
typically measured over the course of a month.
You will agree on this metric with your customers.
You are attesting to the fact that you can keep
your platform available that percentage of the time,
and your customer finds that amount of time to be acceptable.
Depending on your product and industry,
your SLA may define a higher or lower uptime.
You will also likely face penalties if you do not achieve your uptime commitment.
This usually comes in the form of
monetary or service credits that you would owe your customers.
Meeting your SLA requires diligence.
You will need to track your platforms uptime so that you can
demonstrate to your customers that you are measuring it and meeting commitments.
In order to maintain a high level of uptime,
you need to have redundancy throughout your service.
Uptime is usually referred to as a number of nines.
For example, an SLA of 99.9 percent is referred to as having three nines of availability.
You will also hear terms such as three and a half nines.
This would mean 99.95 percent uptime.
To reach a moderate level of uptime,
you cannot have a single point of failure.
A single point of failure is any one component that were it to fail,
would take down a system until it were repaired or replaced.
Any single point of failure will,
at some point, fail.
You could call this Murphy's law,
but really it's just probability, everything fails eventually.
When this happens, the time required to recover will likely cause you to miss your SLA.
Be thoughtful of all the things that need to be redundant;
databases, networking, servers, caches,
also staff, people who know how to fix things and not just one
person because people go on vacation or sleep through emergency pager alerts.